Spells in Harry Potter 

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

Spells in Harry Potter occur in the fictional universe of the series of books by author J. K. 
Rowling. Magic spells are used by many of the characters to achieve useful effects without the 
benefit of modern technology. The main depiction of a "spell" in the Harry Potter books consists of 
a gesture made with the character's wand, combined with a spoken or mental incantation. In the 
books and their associated film series, the names of the majority of these spells or the 

incantations used to effect them are derived from the Classical languages, particularly Latin^l 
These names are not grammatically correct in any language; most spoken phrases resemble 
Latin words of appropriate meaning but are not proper Latin themselves. 

In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, the concept of casting spells nonverbally is introduced. 
Earlier, every spell cast by the principal characters had been accompanied by the appropriate 
voiced incantation, although advanced adult practitioners of magic had cast nonverbal spells in 
previous books. Consequently, the incantations used for some spells introduced in Half-Blood 
Prince and its sequel Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows are not known canonically. 

Spells are listed here by their incantations (when known), with their vernacular names in 
parenthesis. Some spells have no known incantation - the only canonical reference is by an 
informal name, either because in its only appearance in the relevant book it was cast nonverbally, 
or because it was never depicted in the books, only mentioned. The majority of spells cast in 
duels between adult characters in all seven books appear nonverbally; such spells can be only 
identified by their effects. 


Contents 

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ 


A 


Accio (Summoning Charm) 

Pronunciation: Various suggestions have been made 
[akkio] (AK-ee-o) - classical Latin (film) 

[aksio] (AK-see-o) - (audio book, video game) 

[aesio] (AH-see-o) - (Scholastic) English 

Description: This charm summons an object to the caster, potentially over a significant 
distance^. 

Seen/Mentioned: First mentioned in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Harry summons 

his broom to complete the First Task of the Triwizard Tournament^ Ch ' 20 l Later in the 
same book Harry summons a Portkey he can't reach to escape from the Battle in the 
Graveyard. Also seen in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows to try to summon Horcruxes, and Harry even tries to summon a falling 

Hagrid, and later, his glasses, to comical effects^ Ch ' 4 l 

Suggested Etymology: The Latin word accio means "I call" or "I summon".^ 


(Age-Line Spell) 




Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Creates a line that is impassable by people below a set age. 

Seen/Mentioned: Seen only in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Albus Dumbledore cast 
this spell to stop underage students from placing their names into the Goblet of 

Fire[ GFC h.1 6 ] 

Notes: Fred and George Weasley, along with several other students, attempted to (though 
underage) pass the line using age potions. Their attempts failed, showing that the line 
cannot be tricked by this spell. 

Aguamenti 

Pronunciation: AH-gwa-MEN-tee or AG-YOO-A-menti (IPA: /a.g w e.'men.ti/) 

Description: Produces a jet of water from the witch or wizard's wand. 

Seen/Mentioned: First named in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Flarry casts this 
spell in an attempt to create water for Dumbledore to drink after taking Voldemort's 

potionf HBP Ch - 26 ], and later to douse Hagrid's hut after it is set on fire t HBP Ch - 28 ] Hermione 
uses it in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to put out Mundungus's searing eyebrows. 

Alohomora 

Pronunciation: AL-lo-ha-MOR-ah (IPA: /e'lo.he,mo.je/) 

Description: Used to open and unlock doors,^ but doors may be bewitched so that this 
spell has no effect. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used throughout the series, first use by Hermione in Harry Potter and the 

Philosopher's Stone on the door to the third floor corridor in Hogwarts^ PS Ch ‘ 9 l 
Suggested Etymology: "Aloha" which is Hawaiian for "good-bye" and "mora" which is Latin 
for "obstacles" 

Anapneo 

Pronunciation: ah-NAP-nee-oh (IPA: /e.'naep.ni.eu/) 

Description: Clears the target's airway, if blocked. 

Seen/Mentioned: Shown in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Horace Slughorn casts 
this spell on Marcus Belby when the latter begins to choke^ HBP Ch ' 7 l 

(Anti-Cheating Spell) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Cast on parchment or quills to prevent the writer from cheating while writing 
answers. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and Harry Potter 
and the Order of the Phoenix as being cast on quills and exam papers for exams at 

Hogwarts [PS CM6] . 

(Anti-Disapparition Jinx) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Used to prevent Disapparition in an area for a time. Presumably can be used 
to prevent an enemy from entering a defended area, or used to trap an enemy in an area. 
Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, used by Albus 

Dumbledore to trap several Death Eaters in the Department of Mysteries^ 0P Ch36 l Also 



cast long ago on Hogwarts, the reason why (As Hermione quotes innumerable times 
throughout the series) "No one can apparate or disapparate inside the Hogwarts grounds." 

In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Death Eaters had cast this spell, preventing the trio 
from escaping Hogsmeade. 

(Antonin Dolohov's Curse) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: This curse causes serious internal injury, but does not show any external 
symptoms. It is described as cast with "a slashing motion", sending out a streak of purple 
flames. 

Seen/Mentioned: Seen only in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, this spell is cast 
three times by Antonin Dolohov during the battle between the Death Eaters and members of 
Dumbledore's Army at the Ministry of Magic. All three times it is shown cast non-verbally, 
although one time this was due to Dolohov having previously been hit by the Silencing 
Charm and hence unable to speak. 

Aparecium 

Pronunciation: AH-par-EE-see-um (IPA: /ae.pe'ji.si.Am/) 

Description: This spell makes invisible ink appear. 

Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, when Hermione 

tries to make hidden writing appear in Tom Marvolo Riddle's diary^ CS Ch ' 13 l 
Notes: See also Specialis Revelio. 

(Atmospheric Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Presumably causes weather patterns to be created. 

Seen/Mentioned: It was said in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows that a malfunction of 
this spell may have been causing offices in the Ministry of Magic to rain. 

Avada Kedavra (Killing Curse) 

Pronunciation: uh-VAH-dah kuh-DAHV-rah (IPA: la. Vae.de ke.'daev.je/) 

Description: One of the three "Unforgivable Curses". Causes instant, painless death, and 
leaves no physical signs of cause of death. There is no described counter-curse or blocking 

spell, but it is shown that the spell can be blocked by physical cover [° p Ch - 36 ] ] and the 
caster is still required to aim to hit the target. Described effects include a flash of green 

light^ GF Ch - 14 ] and a rushing sound, similar to an oncoming high-speed object^ Ch1 l 
Seen/Mentioned: Throughout the series. This was the spell described as used to kill Harry's 
parents. Lord Voldemort is shown to kill many people with this curse. 

Suggested Etymology: From the Aramaic K12.K avada kedavra, translated as "I 
destroy as I speak" or Let the thing be destroyed. "Abracadabra" means "begone like this 

word." [5] 


Avis 


Pronunciation: AH-vis (IPA: /a'vis/) 

Description: This charm creates a flock of birds which pour forth from the caster's wand. 
When coupled with Oppugno, it can be used offensively. 

Seen/Mentioned: Shown in Harry Potter and The Goblet of Fire, cast by Mr Ollivanderto 



test Viktor Krum's wand^ GF Ch ‘ 18 l | n Harry Potter and the Half-blood Prince, it is cast by 
Hermione, followed by Oppugno which causes the birds to attack Ron WeasleyJ HBP Ch - 14 ] 


B 

(Banishing Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 
Description: Opposite to "Accio". 

Seen/Mentioned: Seen in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, cast by Hermione who 
perfectly banishes a cushion into a box which is their target in their Charms class. 

(Bat-Bogey Hex) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Grotesquely enlarges the target's bogies (British slang for nasal mucus), gives 
them wings, and sets them attacking the target. 

Seen/Mentioned: Ginny Weasley is depicted as an accomplished caster of this particular 
spel|[° P Ch6 l She is shown to use it in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix on Draco 
Malfoy[° P Ch - 33 ] i and in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince on Zacharias 
Smith[ HBPCh - 7 H6] 

(Bedazzling Hex) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Similar to a Disillusionment Charm, it can be used to conceal a person or an 
object. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned only in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows by Xenophilius 
Lovegood. Never cast in canon. 

Notes: Is used to make invisibility cloaks. 

(Bubble-Head Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Puts a large bubble of air around the head of the user. Used as a magical 
equivalent of a breathing set. 

Seen/Mentioned: in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Cedric Diggory and Fleur Delacour 

use this charm underwater in the second task of the Triwizard Tournament^ Ch ' 26 l |p 
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, it is described as used by many Hogwarts 
students when walking through the hallways, because of the bad smells caused by the 

various pranks played on Dolores Umbridgef° P Ch ' 30 l 


c 

(Caterwauling Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Anyone entering the perimeter of a Caterwauling Charm sets off a 
high-pitched shriek. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, cast by Death Eaters 



over Hogsmeade to protect against intruders J DH Ch - 28 ] 

Note: Similar to an intruder charm: they both produce an alarm if the vicinity is disturbed. 

Cave Inimicum 

Pronunciation: KAH-vay ih-NIH-mih-kum (IPA: /'kae.ve i.'ni.mi.kAim/) 

Description: Spell used to strengthen an enclosure from enemies. 

Seen/Mentioned: Shown only in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, cast by Hermione 

and Harry to strengthen their campsites' defences ^ 01-1 Ch ' 22 l 

(Cheering Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes the person upon whom the spell was cast to become happy and 
contented, though heavy-handedness with the spell may cause the person to break into an 
uncontrollable laughing fit. 

Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban J PA Ch - 15 ] 

Colloportus 

Pronunciation: cul-loh-POR-tus (IPA: /ko.lo.'po-.tes/) 

Description: Magically locks a door, preventing it from being opened by Muggle means 
Seen/Mentioned: First in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, cast by Hermione in 
the Department of Mysteries. 

Notes: This spell functions as the counter spell to Alohomora 

(Colour-Change Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown. A highly unlikely incantation is attempted by Ron Weasley in 

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone^ ps Ch - 6 ] 

Description: Changes an object's colour. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Harry's Ordinary Wizarding Levels in Harry Potter and the 
Order of the Phoenix [OP Ch 31] . 

Confringo (Blasting Curse) 

Pronunciation: con-FRIN-goh (hard "g") orcon-FRIN-joh (IPA: /kAn.'fjirj.geu/ or 
/kAn.'fjin.d3eu/) 

Description: Causes anything that the spell comes into contact with to explode. 
Seen/Mentioned: Seen only in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. In the opening 

chapters, it is cast by Harry to destroy the side-car of the flying motorbike^ DH Ch ' 4 l Later, it 
is used by Hermione in an attempt to kill Nagini and facilitate an escape from Bathilda 

Bagshot's house in Godric's Hollow ^ 01-1 Ch ' 17 l 

Confundo (Confundus Charm) 

Pronunciation: con-FUN-doh (IPA: /kAn.'fAn.deu/) 

Description: Causes the victim to become confused and befuddled. 

Seen/Mentioned: First mentioned in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, when 
Severus Snape suggests that Harry and Hermione had been Confunded to believe Sirius 



Black's claim to innocence^ Ch ' 21 l | n Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, it is suggested 
that a powerful Confundus Charm is responsible for the Goblet choosing a fourth Triwizard 

contestant^ Ch17 l it is first seen in action when Hermione uses it on Cormac McLaggen 

during Quidditch tryouts in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince^ BP Ch/I Its vernacular 
name is first revealed when Harry uses it on security guards during the Gringotts break-in. 

(Conjunctivitus Curse) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: A curse that affects the victim's vision. 

Seen/Mentioned: It is suggested by Sirius Black in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire as a 
means for defeating a dragon for the first task of the Triwizard Tournament, and used by 

Viktor Krum for this purpose^ Ch ' 19, 2 °], Mentioned in Harry Potter and the Order of the 
Phoenix as cast by Madame Maxime against giants ^ 013 Ch - 2 °]. 

Crucio (Cruciatus Curse) 

Pronunciation: KROO-see-oh (IPA: /'kju.si.eu/) 

Description: Inflicts intense pain on the recipient of the curse. One of the three 
Unforgivable Curses 

Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire when it is demonstrated 
on a spider during a "class demonstration" in a Defence Against the Dark Arts 

lesson^ CM4 l 

(Cushioning Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Creates an invisible cushioned area. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Quidditch Through the Ages, cast on broomsticks to provide 
a more comfortable ride. Shown in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, used to cushion 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione's fall in Gringotts and Hogwarts. 


D 

Defodio (Gouging Spell) 

Pronunciation: deh-FOH-dee-oh (IPA: dc.'feu.di.eu/) 

Description: This spell causes deep gouges to appear in the object targeted by the spell. ^ 
Seen/Mentioned: Cast by the three lead characters in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 

to help dig their way out of the Gringotts Tunnels ^ 01-1 Ch ' 26 l 

Deletrius 

Pronunciation: deh-LEE-tree-us (IPA: /de.'Ii.tji.es/) 

Description: An erasure spell. It erases images and magical "after-effects". ^ 
Seen/Mentioned: Seen only in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire when Amos Diggory gets 

rid of the echo of the Dark Mark from Harry's wand^ GF Ch9 l 


Densaugeo 



Pronunciation: den-sah-OO-jee-oh /den.'so.d3i.au/) 

Description: This hex makes the victim's teeth grow rapidly.^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Seen only in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, cast by Draco Malfoy on 
Harry, which is deflected onto Hermione^ GF Gh ' 18 l 

Descendo 

Pronunciation: deh-SEN-doh (IPA: /ds.'sen.dau/) 

Description: The spell likely causes any targeted object to move downwards.^ 
Seen/Mentioned: Seen twice in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, It is cast by Ron to 

magically cause the stairs in his room to descend^ DH Ch - 6 ], and later by Crabbe in the Room 
of Requirement to lower the wall behind which Ron is hiding^- DH Gh ' 31 l 

Deprimo 

Pronunciation: DEH-prih-moh. 

Description: This spell places immense downward pressure upon its target, which may 
result in the violent fracturing of said target. ^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Introduced in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows when a Death Eater is 
duelling the trio in a diner (resulting in him blowing up the booth) and later when Hermione 

casts this to blast a hole in the Lovegood's living room floor^ DH Gh ' 21 l 

Diffindo (Severing Charm) 

Pronunciation: dif-FIN-doh (IPA: /di.'fin.deu/) 

Description: Tears the target or a specific area on the target. ^ 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire when Harry urgently wants to talk to 

Cedric Diggory he casts this spell to rip his bag, delaying him for class ^ GF Ch9 Wid in Harry 
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince to switch covers of his potion books . Also shown several 

times in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, for cutting ropes^ 01-1 Ch - 9 ], chains^ 01-1 Ch ' 13 l, 
etc. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin diffindo, "I divide."^ 

Dissendium 

Pronunciation: dis-EN-dee-um (IPA: /di.’sen.di.em/) 

Description: Causes the statue of the humpbacked witch hiding the secret passage to 
Honeydukes to open up. [9][PA CM0] 

Seen/Mentioned: Seen only in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban. 

(Disillusionment Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes the target to become able to change colour to match their background, 

effectively hiding them without making them invisible, ^ but it is also stated that powerful 
wizards, such as Dumbledore or Grindelwald, could cast disillusionment charms so powerful, 
that they were effectively invisible. 

Seen/Mentioned: First in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Alastor Moody casts 



this charm on Harryt 0P Ch ' 3, 4 l Xenophilius Lovegood mentions, in Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows, that invisibility cloaks are sometimes created by casting a disillusionment 

charm on a regular cloak^ DH Ch ' 21 l 

Notes: The described sensation of a Disillusionment charm is a feeling "something cold and 
wet trickling down [your] back." When the charm is lifted, the subject feels something hot 

trickling down their backJ 0P Ch ' 3, ^ 

Duro 

Pronunciation: DOO-roh (IPA: /’du.jeu/) 

Description: Turns its target to stone.^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Seen in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, cast by Hermione while 
escaping from Death Eaters in Hogwarts^ DH Ch ' 32 l 


E 

Engorgio (Engorgement Charm) 

Pronunciation: en-GOR-jee-oh (IPA: /in.'go-.d3i.eu/) 

Description: Causes objects to swell in size. 

Seen/Mentioned: A "Growth Charm" with the same effect is briefly mentioned. Seen in 
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire when Barty Crouch, Jr, impersonating Professor Moody, 
casts it on a spider to enhance a demonstration of the effects of the Cruciatus Curse. Hagrid 

is suspected of having performed the charm on his pumpkins ^ CS Ch 7 ] i and Ron Weasley 
suggested it might be the cause of Hagrid's abnormal size before learning that he is 
half-giant. Cast on a spider by Harry in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. 

Suggested Etymology: The English word engorged means "distended" or "swollen" by way 

of Old French engorgier ^ 

Episkey 

Pronunciation: eh-PIS-key (IPA: /spi'ski/) 

Description: Used to heal relatively minor injuries. When this spell is cast, the person feels 
their injured body part go very hot and then very cold. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire after the first task of the 
Triwizard Tournament. In Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Nymphadora Tonks uses 
this spell to fix Harry's broken nose; also used by Harry in the same book to fix Demelza 
Robins' mouth. 

Notes: Rowling writes in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince that Harry's knowledge tells 
him this spell could belong to a family (or variety) of Healing Spells, in the same way a 
species of plants belongs to a larger genus. 

Erecto 

Pronunciation: ee-RECK-toh or eh-RECK-toh (IPA: /i.'jek.teu/ or /e.'jsk.teu/) 

Description: Used to erect a tent or other structure. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione and Harry to construct shelter for themselves and Ron 
in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. 


Evanesco (Vanishing Spell) 



Pronunciation: ev-an-ES-koh (IPA: (IPA: /s.vn.'ss.keu/) 

Description: Makes something vanish. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by Professor Snape to 
make Harry's potions disappear from his cauldron. In addition, when Fred and George were 
showing off their puking pastilles, Lee Jordan cleared the bucket of vomit with the Evanesco 
spell. During their stay at # 12 , Grimmauld Place, Bill uses this on a stack of documents. This 
suggests that Vanished objects can be recovered. 

Notes: According to Professor McGonagall, in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, 
Vanished objects and organisms go "into non-being, which is to say, everything." This was 
McGonagall's response to the question, "Where do vanished objects go?" from the door 
knocker at Ravenclaw Tower. 

Expecto Patronum (Patronus Charm) 

Pronunciation: ecks-PEK-toh pah-TRO-num (IPA: /cks.'pek.teu pe.'treu.nAm/) 

Description: The Patronus Charm is a defensive spell used to conjure an incarnation of the 
Witch's or Wizard's innermost positive emotions to act as a protector against Dementors. It 
can also be used to send messages. 

Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, when Remus 
Lupin made the Dementor on the train disappear, though seen without the incantation 
noticed. Lupin later teaches Harry to use the charm as a defence against Dementors. 
Suggested Etymology: See Patronus Charm article. 

Expelliarmus 

Pronunciation: ex-pel-ee-AR-mus (IPA: /eks.ps.li.'a-.mis/) 

Description: This spell is used to disarm another wizard, typically by causing the victim's 

wand to fly out of reachIt can also throw the target backwards when enough power is 
put into it. As demonstrated in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban , simultaneous use 
of this spell by multiple witches or wizards on a single person can throw the wizard back with 
much greater force. 

Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, when Professor 
Snape disarms Professor Lockhart in the Dueling Club; from then on it is commonly 
throughout the rest of the series. Draco Malfoy uses it to disarm Albus Dumbledore and 
Harry uses it in the final battle against Voldemort while wielding the Elder Wand. It is seen 
by the Death Eaters as Harry's signature spell, as he had used it to duel Voldemort in both 
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. 

Expulso 

Pronunciation: ecks-PUL-soh (IPA: /eks.'pul.seu/) 

Description: A curse which causes that with which it comes into contact to explode 
violently. Similar to the Blasting Curse, which also causes its target to explode. 
Seen/Mentioned: Used by a Death Eater in an attempt to capture Harry in Harry Potter and 
the Deathly Hallows. 


F 

Ferula 

Pronunciation: feh-ROO-lah (IPA: /fe.'ju.le/) 
Description: Creates a bandage and a splint. 



Seen/Mentioned: Used by Remus Lupin in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban to 
bind Ron's broken leg. 

(Fidelius Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: A charm involving secret information hidden within the soul of a 
Secret-Keeper. This information is irretrievable until the Secret-Keeper chooses to reveal it; 
those who have the secret revealed to them cannot reveal it to others. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, it is explained that when 
Harry was an infant, he and his parents, James and Lily Potter, were hidden from Lord 
Voldemort by this charm. Later, in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the charm is 
used to hide the location of the headquarters for the Order of the Phoenix. 

Notes: Rowling previously stated that when a Secret-Keeper dies, the Secret they held can 
never be revealed to anyone else; the people who were told before the Secret-Keeper's 
death will still know the secret, but after the death of the Secret-Keeper no one new can be 

brought into the circle of knowledge.^ ^ However, in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, it 
is explained that upon the Keeper's death, all those who have been told the secret become 
Secret-Keepers in turn, and can pass the secret on to others. 

(Fiendfyre) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Fiendfyre is a seemingly unstoppable cursed fire, the flames of which take the 
shape of fantastic creatures that pursue those caught in its path. It is shown to be capable of 
destroying Horcruxes. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows when Crabbe, Goyle, and 
Draco Malfoy corner Harry in the Room of Hidden Things (one manifestation of the Room of 
Requirement). Crabbe casts Fiendfyre, which become flaming beasts that pursue Harry, 

Ron, and Hermione and devour every object within the Room, including Crabbe and the 
diadem Horcrux. 

Notes: Hermione reveals she was aware that Fiendfyre could potentially destroy a Horcrux 
but that she never considered using it for that purpose because it was too dangerous to use. 

Finite (Incantatem) (Counter-Spell) 

Pronunciation: fi-NEE-tay (in-can-TAH-tem) (IPA: /fi.'ni.tei (in.kn.'tae.dm)/) 

Description: Negates many spells or the effects of many spells. 

Seen/Mentioned: Professor Snape uses it in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets to 
restore order in the Dueling Club when Harry and Draco are duelling. Remus Lupin uses the 
short form " Finite " in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. In Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows, Hermione suggests to Ron to attempt to use this spell to stop it raining in 
Yaxley's office. Harry used Finite to counter Crabbe's Descendo attack on Ron in Harry 
Potter and the Deathly Hallows. 

(Flagrante Curse) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes any object affected to burn human skin when touched. 
Seen/Mentioned: Seen in the Lestranges' vault in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, as 
a criminal deterrent. 


Flag rate 



Pronunciation: fluh-GRAYT, FLAH-grayt, fluh-GRAH-tay (IPA: /fla.'gjae.te/) 

Description: With this spell, the caster's wand can leave fiery marks. 

Seen/Mentioned: Cast by Hermione in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix to identify 
doors of the Department of Mysteries which members of Dumbledore's Army had already 
opened, by marking them with an 'X'. 

(Flame-Freezing Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes fire to become harmless to those caught in it, creating only a gentle, 
tickling sensation instead of burns. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in the first chapter of Harry Potter and the Prisoner ofAzkaban 
as used by witches and wizards during medieval burnings. 

(Flying Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Cast on broomsticks, and (presumably) magic carpets to make them fly. 
Seen/Mentioned: Draco Malfoy mentioned this spell when tauntingly asking Ron Weasley 
why would anyone cast a Flying Charm on Ron's broomstick in Harry Potter and the Order of 
the Phoenix during Ron's first Quidditch practice. It is also mentioned in Quidditch Through 
the Ages. 

Notes: See Quidditch. 

Furnunculus 

Pronunciation: fer-NUN-kyoo-lus 

Description: Causes the target to become covered in boils. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire on Draco Malfoy, but 
was deflected onto Goyle instead. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin furunculus, a type of boil.^ 


G 

Geminio 

Pronunciation: jeh-MIH-nee-oh or geh-MIH-nee-oh (hard "g") (IPA: /d3e.'mi.ni.eu/ or 
/ge.'mi.ni.eu/) 

Description: Creates a duplicate of any object cast upon. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to copy 
Salazar Slytherin's locket in order to hide their tracks from Dolores Umbridge. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin geminus, meaning twins. 

(Gemino Curse) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Whenever an object affected by this curse is touched, it duplicates itself into 
many useless copies to hide the original. 

Seen/Mentioned: Seen in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows when Harry, Ron, 
Hermione, and Griphook break into the Lestrange vault in Gringotts. This was also used by 
Hermione to duplicate the locket Horcrux at the Ministry so Umbridge would not notice its 
absence. 



Glisseo 


Pronunciaton: GLISS-see-oh or gliss-SAY-oh (IPA: /'glis.si.su/ or/glis.'se.eu/) 
Description: Causes the steps on a stairway to flatten and form a ramp or slide. 
Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione to escape from pursuing Death Eaters in Harry Potter 
and the Deathly Hallows. 

(Gripping Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Used to help someone grip something with more effectiveness. This charm is 
placed upon Quaffles to help Chasers carry the Quaffle whilst simultaneously holding their 
brooms. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Quidditch Through the Ages. 

Notes: See Quidditch. 


H 

(Hair-Thickening Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 
Description: Thickens one's hair. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Severus Snape asserts that 
Alicia Spinnet used it on her eyebrows even though she was obviously hexed by a member 
of the Slytherin Quidditch team. 

Homenum Revelio 

Pronunciation: HOM-eh-num reh-VEH-lee-oh (IPA: /'ho.me.nAm je.Ve.li.eu/ 

Description: Reveals humans in the vicinity of the caster. 

Seen/Mentioned: First used by Dumbledore to detect Harry under his Invisibility Cloak, but 
first named when used multiple times by various characters in Harry Potter and the Deathly 

Hallows. ^ 12 l 

(Homorphus Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes an Animagus or transfigured object to assume its normal shape. 
Seen/Mentioned: According to Gilderoy Lockhart, he used it to force the Wagga Wagga 
Werewolf to take its human form ( Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets). 

(Horton-Keitch Braking Charm) 

Prounciation: Unknown 

Description: This spell was first used on the Comet 140 to prevent players from 
overshooting the goal posts and from flying off-sides. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Quidditch Through the Ages as the charm that gave the 
Comet 140 an advantage over the Cleansweep. 

Notes: See Quidditch. 


(Hurling Hex) 



Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes brooms to vibrate violently in the air and try to buck their rider off. 
Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Professor Quirrell may have 
been casting a wordless and wandless version of this spell on Harry's broom during his 
Quidditch match. Professor Flitwick suggested that Harry's confiscated Firebolt may be 
jinxed with this spell. 


I 

Impedimenta (Impediment Jinx, Impediment Curse) 

Pronunciation: im-ped-ih-MEN-tah (IPA: /im.pc.di.'men.ta/ 

Description: This hex is capable of tripping, freezing, binding, knocking back and generally 
impeding the target's progress towards the caster. The extent to which the spell's specific 
action can be controlled by the caster is not made clear. If this spell does bind it does 
eventually wear off as stated in Deathly Hallows. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire when Harry is practising for 
the third task. Also used by Madam Hooch to momentarily stop Harry from fighting with 
Draco Malfoy. Also seen toward the end of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, when 
Harry is fighting the Death Eaters. Stronger uses of this spell seem capable of blowing 
targets away. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin impedimentum (plural impedimenta)} 5 ^ "a hindrance" or "an 
impediment". 

Imperio (Imperius Curse) 

Pronunciation: im-PEER-ee-oh (IPA: [im.'pi.ji.,eu]) (classical Latin: eem-PEHR-ee-oh (IPA: 
[im.'p£r.i.,o]) 

Description: One of the three "Unforgivable Curses". Places the subject in a dream-like 
state, in which he or she is utterly subject to the will of the caster. However, those who are 

strong willed may learn to resist itJ HP4 ^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Used on many occasions. First seen in Harry Potter and the Goblet of 
Fire when Barty Crouch Jr, impersonating ex-Auror Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, uses it on a 
spider and later on students during a "class demonstration" in a Defence Against the Dark 
Arts lecture. While breaking into Gringotts in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Harry 
uses it on a goblin and a Death Eater when they became suspicious. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin impero, "I command", and English imperious 

(Imperturbable Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Makes objects such as doors impenetrable (by everything, including sounds 
and objects). 

Seen/Mentioned: The spell is used in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire by Hermione to 
trap Rita Skeeter within a bottle while she was in beetle form. It was also used by Mrs 
Weasley in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix on the door of the room in which an 
Order of the Phoenix meeting was being held, in order to prevent her sons, Fred and 
George, from eavesdropping 

Impervius (Impervius Charm) 


Pronunciation: im-PURR-vee-uss (IPA: [im.'p3\vi. i E:s]) 



Description: This spell makes something repel (literally, become impervious to) substances 
and outside forces, including water. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban on Harry's 
glasses while in a Quidditch match and also by the Gryffindor Quidditch team in Harry Potter 
and the Order of the Phoenix, both times to allow team members to see in a driving rain. 

Also used in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, first by Ron to protect objects in Yaxley's 
office from rain, and then by Hermione in an attempt to protect Harry, Ron and Griphook 
from the burning treasure in the Lestranges' vault. 

Incarcerous 

Pronunciation: in-CAR-ser-us (IPA: [in.'kaj.s3\,is]) 

Description: Ties someone or something up with ropes. 

Seen/Mentioned: First heard in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, when Dolores 
Umbridge gets in a battle with the centaurs. Also used by Harry on the Inferi in Lord 
Voldemort's Horcrux chamber, in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. 

Incendio 

Pronunciation: in-SEN-dee-oh (IPA: [in.'s£n.di.,eu]) 

Description: Produces fireJ 8 ^ 

Seen/Mentioned: It is first seen in Philosopher's Stone when Hagrid produces fire out of his 
umbrella in the little house the Dursleys took refuge in (from the Hogwarts letters). In Harry 
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, this spell is used several times in battle, for instance when 
Hagrid's hut is set ablaze. 

(Intruder Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Detects intruders and sounds an alarm. 

Seen/Mentioned: Horace Slughorn had it on a temporary Muggle owned house he was 
living in, allowing him to detect Albus Dumbledore and Harry as they approached in Harry 
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. 


J 

(Jelly-Legs Jinx) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: A jinx that renders its victim's legs temporarily useless, leaving them to wobble 
around helplessly until the effect wears off or the counter-jinx is performed. 
Seen/Mentioned: First mentioned as one of the jinxes in the book Curses and 

Counter-Curses J PS Ch 5 ^ Then used by Harry practising for the Third Task of the Triwizard 

Tournament, by Hermione.^ GF Ch - 31 ] After the tournament, Malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle tried 
to harass Harry and were hit with a few hexes, curses and jinxes, including the Jelly-Legs 

JinxJ GF Ch 


K 


(Knee-Reversal Hex) 



Pronunciation: Unknown 

Seen/Mentioned: In Quidditch Through the Ages, Gertie Keddle uses this hex when a man 
playing an early form of Quidditch comes to retrieve his ball from her garden. 


L 

Langlock 

Pronunciation: LAN-glock (IPA: [leirplok]) 

Description: Glues the subject's tongue to the roof of their mouth. Created by Severus 
Snape. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince on Peeves and 
also on Argus Filch, to general applause. 

Legilimens (Legilimency Spell) 

Pronunciation: Le-JIL-ih-mens (IPA: [l£.'d 3 il.i. i menz]) 

Description: Allows the caster to delve into the mind of the victim, allowing the caster to see 
the memories, thoughts, and emotions of the victim. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Professor Snape on Harry during Occlumency lessons in Harry 
Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Also used non-verbally by Snape on Harry in Harry 
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince to allow him to see where Harry had learned the 
Sectumsempra spell. 

Notes: See also Legilimency for more information. 

Levicorpus 

Pronunciation: levi-COR-pus (nonverbal) (IPA: [levi.'koj.pis]) 

Description: The victim is dangled upside-down by their ankles, sometimes accompanied 
by a flash of light 

Seen/Mentioned: It was originally shown to be a nonverbal-only spell, but it is whispered by 
Hermione in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Harry learns it by reading the notes 
written by the Half-Blood Prince. He inadvertantly uses it on Ron in Harry Potter and the 
Half-Blood Prince. In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Harry had seen (through 
the Pensieve) his father, James Potter, use the spell against Professor Snape. In the game 
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game), it is used as a combat spell, where 
it is also verbal. 

Liberacorpus 

Pronunciation: lib-er-ah-COR-pus (nonverbal) (IPA: [li.b.s.jae.'koj.pis] 

Description: The counterspell to Levicorpus. 

Seen/Mentioned: Harry uses the spell in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince to 
counteract the Levicorpus spell he inadvertently casts on Ron. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin liberare, "to free", and corpus, "body". ^ 

Locomotor 

Pronunciation: loh-koh-MOH-tor (IPA: /Jo.ko.'mo.ta-/) 

Description: The spell is always used with the name of a target, at which the wand is 
pointed (e.g. " Locomotor Trunk\"). The spell causes the named object to rise in the air and 
move around at the will of the caster. 



Seen/Mentioned:Used by Nymphadora Tonks in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix 
to move Harry's trunk from his room. Professor Flitwick similarly uses it to move Professor 
Trelawney's trunk after Professor Umbridge sacks her. Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown 
use this spell to race their pencil cases around the edges of the table. A variation seen in 
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is Piertotum Locomotor, which animated the suits of 
armour in Hogwarts. 

Locomotor Mortis (Leg-Locker Curse) 

Pronunciation: loh-koh-MOH-tor MOR-tis (IPA: /Jo.ko.'mo.ta- 'mo-.tis/ 

Description: Locks the legs together, preventing the victim from moving the legs in any 
fashion. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Draco Malfoy on Neville Longbottom in Harry Potter and the 
Philosopher's Stone. Used by Harry on Draco Malfoy, who deflects it, in Harry Potter and the 
Half-Blood Prince. 

Lumos 

Pronunciation: LOO-mos (IPA: [lu.meus]) 

Description: Creates a narrow beam of light that shines from the wand's tip, like a torch. ^ 
Seen/Mentioned: Constantly throughout the series. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin lumen, "light" 

Notes: The counterspell, Nox, extinguishes the light. 


M 

Meteolojinx Recanto 

Pronunciation: mee-tee-OH-loh-jincks reh-CAN-toh. 

Description: Causes weather effects caused by incantations to cease. 

Seen/Mentioned: Suggested in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows by Arthur Weasley to 
Ron (disguised by the Polyjuice Potion as Reginald 'Reg' Cattermole from Magical 
Maintenance) as the best way to clear up the incessant rain in Yaxley's office at the Ministry 
of Magic. 

Mobiliarbus 

Pronunciation: MO-bil-ee-AR-bus (IPA: [meu.,bil.i.'aj.bis]) 

Description: Lifts a tree a few inches off the ground and levitates it where the caster points 
their wand. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Hermione uses the spell to 
move a Christmas Tree in The Three Broomsticks beside her table to hide Harry, who was 
in Hogsmeade illegally. 

Mobilicorpus 

Pronunciation: MO-bil-ee-COR-pus (IPA: /mo.,bil.i.'ko-.pis/) 

Description: Lifts a body a few inches off the ground and levitates it where the caster points 
their wand^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Sirius Black uses it on Severus Snape in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of 
Azkaban. 



Morsmordre (Dark Mark) 


Pronunciation: morz-MOR-druh or morz-MOHR-dray (IPA: /mo-z.'mo-.dJA/ or 
/moz.'mo-.dj el) 

Description: Conjures the Dark Mark. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Barty Crouch Jr in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Also seen 
in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince over the castle to lure Professor Dumbledore to his 
death. It was apparently invented by Lord Voldemort. According to Arthur Weasley, very few 
wizards know how to cast this spell. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin mors, "death", and French mordre (from Latin mordere), "to 
bite." [5] 

Muffliato 

Pronunciation: muf-lee-AH-to (IPA: [me.fli.'a.teu]) 

Description: Fills peoples' ears with an unidentifiable buzzing to keep them from hearing 
nearby conversations 

Seen/Mentioned: It is used in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince by Harry and Ron on 
various teachers and people such as Madam Pomfrey. It is also used in Harry Potter and 
the Deathly Hallows by Hermione in protection of the campsite where she and Harry stayed 
in hiding. 


N 

Nox 

Pronunciation: Noks (IPA: ['naks]) 

Description: Turns off the light produced by the Lumos spell. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Harry and Hermione used 
this spell to turn off their wand-lights in the Shrieking Shack. Also used in Harry Potter and 
the Deathly Hallows when Harry was in the passage beneath the Whomping Willow which 
leads to the Shrieking Shack. 

o 

(Obliteration Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Removes things not wished to be seen again. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix to 
remove the footprints that she, Harry, and Ron left in the snow. Also used in Harry Potter 
and the Deathly Hallows by Hermione to remove the footprints she and Harry leave behind 
them in the snow as they journey through Godric's Hollow. 

Notes: The above instance in book five only reveals that the Obliteration Charm can remove 
footprints. There is no explanation as to what effect it can have on other things. 

Obliviate (Memory Charm, Memory-Modifying Charm) 

Pronunciation: oh-BLI-vee-ate (IPA: [eu.'bli.vi.,eit] 

Description: Used to hide a memory of a particular event. 

Seen/Mentioned: First used in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by Gilderoy 



Lockhart on Harry and Ron; the spell backfired due to a faulty wand, causing Lockhart to 
lose most of his own memory. In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Hermione uses the 
spell on two Death Eaters who had followed Harry, Ron, and Hermione after their escape 
from Bill Weasley's and Fleur Delacour's wedding. 

Notes: This spell differs from the False Memory Charm. 

Obscuro 

Pronunciation: ob-SK(Y)OOR-oh (IPA: /ob.'sk(j)u.jeu/) 

Description: Causes a blindfold to appear over the victim's eyes, obstructing their view of 
their surroundings. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to obstruct 
the portrait of Phineas Nigellus' view of their location. 

Oppugno 

Pronunciation: oh-PUG-noh (IPA: /e.'pug.no/ 

Description:causes conjured objects to attack. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince to attack 
Ron Weasley with a conjured flock of canaries. 

Orchideous 

Pronunciation: or-KID-ee-us (IPA: /o-.'ki.di.es/ 

Description: Makes a bouquet of flowers appear out of the caster's wand. 
Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire by Mr Ollivander to test Fleur 
Delacour's wand. 


P 

Pack 

Pronunciation: As in English: IPA: [paek] 

Description: Packs a trunk, or perhaps any luggage. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban by Remus Lupin in his 
office, and in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by Nymphadora Tonks, once 
verbally and again non-verbally. 

(Permanent Sticking Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Makes objects permanently stay in place. 

Seen/Mentioned: First mentioned in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Sirius Black 
suspects that his mother's painting was fixed to the wall with such a Charm. In Harry Potter 
and the Deathly Hallows, Harry discovers that it was used by Sirius to permanently affix his 
pictures to the wall in his room. 

Petrificus Totalus (Full Body-Bind Curse) 

Pronunciation: pe-TRI-fi-cus to-TAH-lus (IPA: [pe.'tri.fe.kes 'tou.tl.es] 

Description: Used to temporarily bind the victim's body in a position much like that of a 

soldier at attention; the victim will usually fall to the ground.^ 



Seen/Mentioned: First used in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone by Hermione, who 
was trying to prevent Neville from stopping her, Ron, and Harry from leaving the common 

room to hunt for the Philosopher's Stone Ch - 16 ] it is then used throughout the rest of the 
series, especially during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in Harry Potter and the 
Order of the Phoenix. 

Peskipiksi Pesternomi 

Pronunciation: PES-key PIX-ee PES-ter NO-mee 

Description: The one time it was uttered, it had absolutely no effect. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Gilderoy Lockhart to attack Cornish pixiesJ CS Ch 6 ^ 

Piertotum Locomotor 

Pronunciation: pee-ayr-TOH-tum (or peer-TOH-tum) loh-koh-MOH-tor (IPA: [pie-.'tou.tem] 
(or pie.'too.tern) lo.ko.'mou.te-]) 

Description: Spell used to animate statues and suits of armour to do the caster's bidding. 
Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Professor McGonagall uses this 

spell to animate the suits of armour and statues within Hogwarts to defend the castle 

Point Me (Four-Point Spell) 

Pronunciation: As in English (IPA: ['point 'mi]) 

Description: Causes the caster's wand tip to point to the north cardinal point, acting like a 
compass. 

Seen/Mentioned: By Harry during the third task of the Triwizard Tournament in Harry Potter 
and the Goblet of Fire. 

Portus 

Pronunciation: POR-tus (IPA: ['poj.tis]) 

Description: Turns an object into a portkey 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Professor Dumbledore in Harry Potter and the Order of the 
Phoenix. 

Notes: Portkeys were first seen in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire as a means for Harry, 
Hermione, and the Weasleys to go to the Quidditch World Cup. However, the spell used in 
its creation was not seen until Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix when Albus 
Dumbledore creates a Portkey to get Harry to safety. 

Prior Incantato 

Pronunciation: pri-OR in-can-TAH-toh 

Description: Causes the echo (a shadow or image) of the last spell cast by a wand to 
emanate from it. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Amos Diggory in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire to discover 
the last spell cast by Harry's wand after it was found in the hands of Winky, a house-elf. 
Mentioned in Deathly Hallows as a means of discovering that Harry had been casting spells 
with Hermione's wand (implying that his own was broken). 

(Protean Charm) 


Pronunciation: Unknown 



Description: Causes copies of an object to be remotely affected by changes made to the 
original. 

Seen/Mentioned: First used in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Hermione put the 

charm on a number of fake Galleons^. Instead of the serial number around the edge of the 
coin, the time and date of the next meeting of Dumbledore's Army appeared. Said to be a 
spell at NEWT level. 

Protego (Shield Charm) 

Pronunciation: pro-TAY-goh (IPA: [pjeu.'tei.geu]) 

Description: The Shield Charm causes minor to moderate jinxes, curses, and hexes to 
rebound upon the attacker 

Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, in which Flarry is taught 
this spell by Hermione in preparation for the third task in the Triwizard Tournament. It is then 
used throughout the rest of the series. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin protego, or "I protect" 

Protego Horribilis 

Pronunciation: pro-TAY-goh horr-uh-BIL-lis (IPA: [pjeu.'tei.geu ,hoj.aYbi.lis]) 

Description: Provides some form of protection against dark magic. 

Seen/Mentioned: Cast by Professor Flitwick in an attempt to strengthen the castle's 
defences in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 

Suggested Etymology: Latin Protego, "I protecf'^and Horribilis, "horrible , frightful, 
dreadful". 

Protego Totalum 

Pronunciation: pro-TAY-go/prah-TEH-go toh-TAH-lum (IPA: [pjeu.'tei.geu tou.'tae.lm]) 
Description: Provides protection of some form for an area or dwelling. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, this is one of the spells used by 
Hermione and Harry to protect their camp site from unwanted visitors. 


Q 

Quietus 

Pronunciation: KWY-uh-tus (IPA: [’kwi.ei.tis]) 

Description: Makes a magically magnified voice return to normal. 
Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire by Ludo Bagman. 
Notes: Functions as the counterspell to Sonorus. 


R 

Reducio 

Pronunciation: re-DOO-see-oh (IPA: [je.'du.si.,eu]) 

Description: Makes an enlarged object smaller. Counter-charm to Engorgio. 
Suggested Etymology: Latin Reducere, "to shrink" 



Reducto (Reductor Curse) 

Pronunciation: re-DUK-toh (IPA: [je.'dAk.teu]) 

Description: Disintegrates or destroys objects in the caster's path. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Harry uses it on one of the hedges 
of the Triwizard maze and ends up burning a small hole in it; in Harry Potter and the Order 
of the Phoenix, Gryffindors in Harry's year reference Parvati Patil as being able to reduce a 
table full of dark detectors to ashes; in Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince, a member of 
the Order of the Phoenix attempts to use this spell to break down a door which Death Eaters 
have blocked when the Death Eaters have cornered Dumbledore in the Lightning Struck 
Tower. Ginny (Ginevra) Weasley uses this spell in the movie of Harry Potter and the Order 
of the Phoenix to bring down shelves of prophecies on the Death Eaters, in the Department 
of Mysteries. 

(Refilling Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Refills whatever the caster points at with the drink originally in the container. 
Seen/Mentioned: Used in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, when Harry notices that 
Hagrid and Professor Slughorn are running out of mead. 

Relashio 

Pronunciation: Re-LASH-ee-oh (IPA: [js.'lae.jL.eu]) 

Description: A charm used to force someone or something to release that which it holds or 
grapples by means of shooting fiery sparks out or, underwater, shooting hot bursts of water. 
Also causes victim of spell to simply release whatever they are holding at the time. 
Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry against Grindylows in the second task of the Triwizard 
Tournament. When used more expertly by Bob Ogden in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood 
Prince, it threw Marvolo Gaunt backwards after an attempted attack. Hermione uses it in 
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to free Mrs. Cattermole from the chained chair. 

Rennervate 

Pronunciation: ree-NUR-vayt (IPA: [ji.nau'.veit]) 

Description: Brings someone out of unconsciousness. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Amos Diggory uses it to wake up 
Winky and Professor Dumbledore uses it to wake up Viktor Krum and Barty Crouch Jr. In 
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Harry later uses it to try and reawaken a cursed 
Dumbledore in the seaside cave. 

Suggested Etymology: Officially renamed from Ennervate by J.K. Rowling^ from the 
prefix "re-" would come from Latin re-, "again" and "en-" Old French from "in-" L. cause to be 

+ "nerves" Eng. c.1603 strength, from "nervus" L. nerve ^ 

Notes: Counterspell to Stupefy; when this spell is cast, red light is emitted. 

Reparo 

Pronunciation: reh-PAH-roh (IPA: [je.'pa.jeu]) 

Description: Used to repair broken or damaged objects. ^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Countless times throughout the books. Shattered objects are often 
described as having "flown" back together. However, substances contained within broken 
objects are not restored. 



Repello Muggletum (Muggle-Repelling Charm) 


Pronunciation: reh-PELL-loh MUG-ul-tum or MUGG-gleh-tum or mugg-GLEE-tum (IPA: 
/je.'pd.eu l mu.gl. i tAm/ or /'mu.gl0.tAim/ or /mu.'gli.tAm/) 

Description: Keeps Muggles away from wizarding places by causing them to remember 
important meetings they missed and to cause the Muggles in question to forget what they 
were doing. 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned in Quidditch Through the Ages as being used to keep Muggles 
away from the Quidditch World Cup. Hogwarts was also said to be guarded by the 
Muggle-Repelling Charm. It is also used by Harry and Hermione on numerous occasions, 
among many other spells, to protect and hide their camp site in Harry Potter and the Deathly 
Hallows. 

Rictusempra (Tickling Charm) 

Pronunciation: ric-tuh-SEM-pra 

Description: The subject experiences the sensation of being tickled. 

Seen/Mentioned: By Harry on Draco Malfoy in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, 
when they fought in the Duelling Club. 

Notes: This spell takes the form of a jet of silver light. 

Riddikulus (Boggart-Banishing Spell) 

Pronunciation: rih-dih-KYU-lus 

Description: A spell used when fighting a Boggart, "Riddikulus" forces the Boggart to take 
the appearance of an object upon which the caster is concentrating. When used correctly 
this will be a humorous form. 

Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban , when taught by 
Professor Lupin. Seen in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire on a boggart that was in the 
maze in the Third Task. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin word ridiculus, "laughable".^ 

Notes: The effect depends on what the caster is thinking. Neville concentrates on his 
grandmother's dress, causing a Boggart in the form of Snape to appear in it. 


s 

Salvio Hexia 

Pronunciation: SAL-vee-oh HECKS-ee-ah 

Description: Provides some form of protection to an area or dwelling. 

Seen/Mentioned: Harry and Hermione cast this spell to strengthen their campsite's 
defences against intruders in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. 

Scourgify (Scouring Charm) 

Pronunciation: SKUR-jih-fy 
Description: Used to clean something.^ 8 ! 

Seen/Mentioned: First used by Nymphadora Tonks to clean Hedwig's cage in Harry Potter 
and the Order of the Phoenix. Later, Ginny Weasley performs the spell to clean up Stinksap 
in the Hogwarts Express. 


Sectumsempra 



Pronunciation: sec-tum-SEMP-rah [sektam'sempja] 

Description: Creates terrible wounds to the target, described as being as though the 
subject had been "slashed by a sword" 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince against Draco 
Malfoy, and then later against both the Inferi in Lord Voldemort's Horcrux chamber, and 
Snape during his flight from Hogwarts. In the opening chapters of Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows, Snape accidentally casts this curse against George Weasley in the Order's 

flight from Privet Drive, though George was not his intended target. ^ DH Ch 3 ^ It is known as 
specialty of Snape's. [DH Ch 5] 

Notes: Though Severus Snape was able to mend the wounds inflicted on Draco Malfoy by 
this curse with ease, with "an incantation that sounded almost like song", Molly Weasley was 
unable to heal her son George Weasley, when his ear was severed by the curse. It was 
discovered in an old copy of Advanced Potion Making by Harry that was invented by 
Severus Snape with the words "For enemies" written next to it. 

Serpensortia 

Pronunciation: ser-pen-SOR-shah [ssjpen'sojtJa] 

Description: Conjures a serpent from the spellcaster's wandJ 8 ^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Draco Malfoy while dueling Harry in Harry Potter and the 
Chamber of Secrets 

Silencio (Silencing Charm) 

Pronunciation: sih-LEN-see-oh [si'lcnsi.o] 

Description: Silences something immediately 

Seen/Mentioned: First used by Hermione in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix to 
silence a frog and a raven in Charms class, then later to silence a Death Eater that was 
trying to shout for help. 

(Slug-Vomiting Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: A jet of green light strikes the victim, who then vomits slugs for several 
minutes. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Ron Weasley attempts to 
use it on Draco Malfoy; the spell backfired and hit him instead. Mentioned in Harry Potter 
and the Order of the Phoenix before Gryffindor's first Quidditch Match against Slytherin 
when Draco taunts Ron, "Harry was reminded forcibly of the time that Ron had accidentally 

put a Slug-Vomiting Charm on himself" J 0P Ch - 19 ] 

Sonorus 

Pronunciation: soh-NOh-rus[so'nojes] 

Description: Magnifies the spellcaster's voice, functioning as a magical megaphone 
Seen/Mentioned: By Ludo Bagman and Cornelius Fudge in Harry Potter and the Goblet of 
Fire to commentate at the Quidditch World Cup. Also used by Professor Dumbledore to 
silence everyone in the Great Hall in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. Used by Lord 
Voldemort several times during the Battle of Hogwarts in Harry Potter and the Deathly 
Hallows. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin sonor, "sound"; English sonorous 



Notes: The counter-spell is Quietus. 


Specialis Revelio (Scarpin's Revelaspell) 

Pronunciation: speh-see-AHLIS reh-VEL-ee-oh 

Description: Causes an object to show its hidden secrets or magical properties. 
Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione to find out more of Harry's Advanced Potion-Making 
book in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. Used by Ernie Macmillan to find out 
ingredients of a potion. 

(Stealth Sensoring Spell) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Detects those under magical disguise. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Professor Umbridge casts 
this around her office. 

(Stinging Hex, Stinging Jinx) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Produces a stinging sensation in the victim, resulting in angry red welts and 
occasionally the severe inflammation of the affected area. 

Seen/Mentioned: Harry inadvertently casts one on Professor Snape during Occlumency 
lessons in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Hermione casts the Stinging Hex on 
Harry in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to purposefully distort Harry's appearance. 

Stupefy (Stunning Spell, Stupefying Charm) 

Pronunciation: STEW-puh-fye 

Description: Puts the victim in an unconscious state. Manifests as a beam of red light. 
Seen/Mentioned: Throughout the series; particularly by a number of wizards and witches 
(including Dolores Umbridge) against Professor McGonagall in Harry Potter and the Order of 
the Phoenix. It is also taught by Harry in his D.A. meetings and used extensively during the 
Battle of the Department of Mysteries against the Death Eaters. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin stupefacere, stupere, "to be stunned". ^ Cf. English stupor. 
Notes: Does not work properly on some magical beings and beasts. Rubeus Hagrid was 
able to withstand multiple direct Stunners due to being half-giant, and Goblet of Fire shows 
six to seven wizards being needed, working in unison, to Stun a single dragon. 

(Supersensory Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Able to possess superior senses than before 

Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned by Ron outside of the Hogwarts Express during the epilogue 
of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows as a potential substitute for using mirrors while 
driving a Muggle automobile. 

(Switching Spell) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes two objects to be switched for one another 

Seen/Mentioned: Harry contemplates using this spell against his dragon in the first task of 
the Triwizard Tournament. Neville also uses this in Transfiguration class in Harry Potter and 



the Goblet of Fire, and accidentally transplants his ears onto a cactus. 


T 

(The Taboo) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: A jinx which may be placed upon a word or a name, so that whenever that 
word is spoken, a magical disturbance is created which alerts the caster of the Taboo to the 
location of the speaker. 

Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, this spell is placed on the word 
"Voldemort"; in this manner Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger are tracked 
throughout their journey until Ron discovers the Taboo and tells the other two to stop using 
the word. Later in the book, Harry accidentally says Voldemort's name again, resulting in the 
trio being caught and taken to Malfoy Manor. 

Tarantallegra 

Pronunciation: ta-RON-tuh-LEG-rah 

Description: Makes victim's legs dance uncontrollably, so the victim cannot control his or 
her movements (recalling the tarantella dance). 

Seen/Mentioned: First used by Draco Malfoy on Harry in the Dueling Club in Harry Potter 
and the Chamber of Secrets. In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, a counterjinx is 
mentioned but not named. It is notably used against Neville Longbottom in the Department 
of Mysteries, causing the prophecy to be broken. 

Suggested Etymology: Tarantula, a spider; Spanish tarantella, a kind of fast country dance 
once popular in parts of Italy, supposedly from the frantic motion caused by the bite of a 

tarantula; allegro, a musical term meaning "quick". ^ 

Tergeo 

Pronunciation: TUR-jee-oh (IPA: ['t 3 -.d 3 i.su]) 

Description: Siphons material from a surface, e.g. blood, ink, dust, etc. 

Seen/Mentioned: Hermione uses this spell in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince to 
remove blood from Harry's face. It was used in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to 
clean off a handkerchief by Ron Weasley, and to dust off a picture of Gellert Grindelwald in 
Bathilda Bagshot's house. 

Suggested Etymology: Latin tergeo : "I rub clean, wipe, polish".^ 

(Tongue-Tying Curse) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: A curse which prevents certain information from being revealed by the 
individual upon whom the spell is placed. The curse manifests itself by causing the tongue to 
temporarily curl backwards upon itself. 

Seen/Mentioned: First mentioned as one of the spells in Curses and 

Counter-Curses J PS Ch 5 ^ Seen in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows as a deterrent to 
Severus Snape, or any other unwanted visitor of Number 12 Grimmauld Place, from 
betraying their location to anyone else. 


(Trip Jinx) 



Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes the victim of the jinx to trip and fall J HP5 ^ 

Seen/Mentioned: Used by Draco Malfoy in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, to 
catch Harry when he was fleeing after Dumbledore's Army was discovered. 


u 

(Unbreakable Vow) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes a vow taken by a witch or wizard to be inviolable; if they should break 
it, the consequence is death. 

Seen/Mentioned: Severus Snape takes an Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa Malfoy at the 
beginning of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, vowing to help Narcissa's son Draco 
with a task given to him by Voldemort, and to finish the task should Draco prove incapable. 
Fred and George Weasley attempted to force an Unbreakable Vow upon Ron Weasley as 
children; when their father discovered this, he punished them severely. According to Fred 
and George, it causes death when the vow is broken. 

(Undetectable Extension Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes a container's capacity to be increased, without changing the object's 
external appearance. 

Seen/Mentioned: This spell is used by Arthur Weasley to allow eight people, six large 
trunks, two owls, and a rat to fit comfortably inside his modified Ford Anglia in Harry Potter 
and the Chamber of Secrets. Hermione casts this spell upon her handbag in Harry Potter 
and the Deathly Hallows. 

(Unplottable Charm) 

Pronunciation: Unknown 

Description: Causes buildings or locations unable to be plotted on a map. 
Seen/Mentioned: First mentioned by Hermione as she wonders whether Durmstrang and 

Beauxbatons are Unplottable J GF Ch11 ] it is also mentioned that Number Twelve, 
Grimmauld Place is Unplottable^ Ch06 l 


w 

Waddiwasi 

Pronunciation: wah-dee-WAH-see 

Description: Appears to launch small objects through the air. 

Seen/Mentioned: Used only once in the series, by Remus Lupin in Harry Potter and the 
Prisoner of Azkaban to expel a wad of chewing gum from the key hole Peeves put it in, 
launching it up Peeves's nose. 

Wingardium Leviosa (Levitation Charm) 


Pronunciation: win-GAR-dee-um lev-ee-OH-sa (IPA: [win.'gaj.di.,Am Ic.vi.'eu.sa] 
Description: Levitates objectsJ 8 ^ 



Seen/Mentioned: First seen in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, when Professor 
Flitwick's first-year class practice the spell. Later in the same book, Ron Weasley performs 
the spell on the club of a mountain troll. The spell is also used in Harry Potter and the 
Deathly Hallows by Harry to levitate the sidecar of a flying motorbike and by Ron to levitate a 
branch to prod the knot which freezes the Whomping Willow. 

See also 

■ Magic (Harry Potter) 

■ Magical Objects in Harry Potter 

References 

1. A Potter spells (http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/newsid_4670000/newsid_4675100/4675187.stm) 
from CBBC. Retrieved on August 25, 2007. 

a b 

2 . A BBC Big Read Transcript (http://www.mugglenet.com/bigread.shtml) from MuggleNet Retrieved 
on, August 23, 2007. (Note: this is a transcript of a BBC television program) 

3. a a b c d e fg Sp e || s and Charms in Latin 

(http://ancienthistory.about.eom/od/artsliterature/a/HarryPotterLat.htm) from About.com Retrieved on 
August 25, 2007. 

4. A Japanese Press Conference PoA 

(http://www.emmaempire.net/archives/cms.en.interviewsjapan.html) Retrieved on August 23, 2007 

5. /\ a bcdefghijki "Abracadabra" means "begone like this word." Randall, Jessy (Spring 2001), 
"Wizard Words: The Literary, Latin, and Lexical Origins of Harry Potter’s Vocabulary", Verbatim 

XXVI (2) 

6 . A http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lianna-kong/halfblood-prince-fullb_b_58192.html accessed 23/8/07 

7. a a to c d QggQ newsround (http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/quiz/newsid_3057000/3057425.stm) . 
Note that the answers are given here 

(http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/newsid_4670000/newsid_4675100/4675187.stm) as 1c, 2b, 3b, 4a, 
5c. 

8. A abcdefghijk CBBC Newsround 

(http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/newsid_4670000/newsid_4676000/4676039.stm) , accessed 
23/8/07. Note answers are given here 

(http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/newsid_4670000/newsid_4675100/4675187.stm) as IF, 2K, 3B, 41, 
5G, 6H, 7J, 8C, 9D, 10E, 11A 
g a abedefghi 

http://www.associatedcontent.com/article/334264/guide_to_harry_potter_spells_letter.html 

10 . A a b http://desicritics.Org/2007/08/05/115353.php accessed 23/8/07 

11. A Rowling, Joanne. Result of F.A.Q. Poll (http://www.jkrowling.com/textonly/en/faq_poll.cfm). Retrieved 
on 2007-07-24. 

12 . A http://www.the-leaky-cauldron.Org/2007/7/30/j-k-rowling-web-chat-transcript 

13 . A a b c http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/newsid_4690000/newsid_4694500/4694587.stm accessed 
23/8/07 

14. A Rowling, J. K. (2007). Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. Bloomsbury Publishing, 484. ISBN 
9780747591061. 

15 . A http://www.hp-lexicon.Org/magic/spells/spells_r.html#rennervate 

16 . A http://www.hp-lexicon.Org/magic/spells/spells_r.html#rennervate 

■ Anastasaki, Elena (2005), Harry Potter through the looking-glass: wordplay and the use of 
language in the works of J. K. Rowling and Lewis Carroll 

External links 


Encyclopedia of Spells at the Harry Potter Lexicon 



(http://www.hp-lexicon.org/magic/spells/spells.html) 

■ Complete list of spells at MuggleNet 
(http://www.mugglenet.com/infosection/spells/index.shtml) 

Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spells_in_Harry_Potter" 

Category: Harry Potter magic 


■ This page was last modified 00:08, 14 December 2007. 

■ All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License. (See 
Copyrights for details.) 

Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a U.S. registered 
501(c)(3) tax-deductible nonprofit charity. 
